README.md, before:

# FastGeospatial

FastGeospatial is a [PostGIS](https://github.com/postgis/postgis) geospatial api to enable geospatial queries on geographical data within a spatial database. FastGeospatial is written in [Python](https://www.python.org/) using the [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) web framework. 

---

**Source Code**: <a href="https://github.com/mkeller3/FastGeospatial" target="_blank">https://github.com/mkeller3/FastGeospatial</a>

---

## Requirements

FastGeospatial requires PostGIS >= 2.4.0.

## Configuration

In order for the api to work you will need to edit the `config.py` file with your database connections.

Example
```python

```

## Usage

### Running Locally

To run the app locally `uvicorn main:app --reload`

### Production
Build Dockerfile into a docker image to deploy to the cloud.

## API

| Method | URL | Description |
| ------ | --- | ----------- |
| `GET` | `/api/v1/analysis/status/{process_id}` | [Analysis Status](#Analysis-Status)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/buffer` | [Buffer](#Buffer)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/dissolve` | [Dissolve](#Dissolve)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/dissolve_by_value` | [Dissolve By Value](#Dissolve-By-Value)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/square_grids` | [Square Grids](#Square-Grids)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/hexagon_grids` | [Hexagon Grids](#Hexagon-Grids)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/bounding_box` | [Bounding Box](#Bounding-Box])  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/k_means_cluster` | [K Means Cluster](#K-Means-Cluster)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/voronoi` | [Voronoi](#Voronoi)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/center_of_each_polygon` | [Center Of Each Polygon](#Center-Of-Each-Polygon)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/center_of_dataset` | [Center Of Dataset](#Center-Of-Dataset)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/find_within_distance` | [Find Within Distance](#Find-Within-Distance)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/point_to_points_distance` | [Point To Points Distance](#Point-To-Points-Distance)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/convex_hull` | [Convex Hull](#Convex-Hull)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/aggregate_points_by_grids` | [Aggregate Points By Grid](#Aggregate-Points-By-Grid)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/aggregate_points_by_polygons` | [Aggregate Points By Polygons](#Aggregate-Points-By-Polygons)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/select_inside` | [Select Inside](#Select-Inside)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/select_outside` | [Select Outside](#Select-Outside)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/clip` | [Clip](#Clip)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/merge` | [Merge](#Merge)  |

## Analysis Status
Any time an analysis is submitted it given a process_id to have the analysis run in the background. To check the
status of an analysis, you can call this endpoint with the process_id.

## Example Call
```shell
/api/v1/analysis/status/472e29dc-91a8-41d3-b05f-cee34006e3f7
```

## Example Output - Still Running
```json
{
    "status": "PENDING"
}
```

## Example Output - Complete
```json
{
    "status": "SUCCESS",
    "new_table_id": "shnxppipxrppsdkozuroilkubktfodibtqorhucjvxlcdrqyhh",
    "completion_time": "2022-07-06T19:33:17.950059",
    "run_time_in_seconds": 1.78599
}
```

## Example Output - Error
```json
{
    "status": "FAILURE",
    "error": "ERROR HERE",
    "completion_time": "2022-07-08T13:39:47.961389",
    "run_time_in_seconds": 0.040892
}
```

## Buffer

![Buffer Image](/images/buffer.png "Buffer Image")

### Description
Buffer an geometric table with a buffer in kilometers.

Example: Buffer zip centroids by one kilometer.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "distance_in_kilometers": 1
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Dissolve

![Dissolve Image](/images/dissolve.png "Dissolve Image")

### Description
Dissolve any geometric table into one single geometry.

Example: Dissolve all the US States into one single geometry.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Dissolve By Value
![Dissolve By Value Image](/images/dissolve_by_value.png "Dissolve By Value Image")

### Description
Dissolve any geometric table into geometries based off a column in the table.

Example: Dissolve US States based off a column in the table called `sub_region`.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "column": "sub_region"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Square Grids
![Square Grids Image](/images/square_grids.png "Square Grids Image")

### Description
Generate square grids of any size based off of a tables geometry.

Example: Generate 100 kilometers square grids based off of a table containing US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "grid_size_in_kilometers": "100"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Hexagon Grids
![Hexagon Grids Image](/images/hexagon_grids.png "Hexagon Grids Image")

### Description
Generate hexagon grids of any size based off of a tables geometry.

Example: Generate 100 kilometers hexagon grids based off of a table containing US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "grid_size_in_kilometers": 100
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Bounding Box
![Bounding Box Image](/images/bounding_box.png "Bounding Box Image")

### Description
Generate a bounding box of a table.

Example: Find the bounding box of a table that contains all of the US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## K Means Cluster
![K Means Cluster Image](/images/k_means_cluster.png "K Means Cluster Image")

Example: Group all US zip centroids into  5 groups based off of k means clusters.

### Description
Use [K Means Clustering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering) to group points based on their location.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "number_of_clusters": 5
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Voronoi

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Center Of Each Polygon
![Center of Each Polygon Image](/images/center_of_each_polygon.png "Center of Each Polygon Image")

### Description
Find the center of each polygon for a given table.

Example: Find the center of each US State.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Center Of Dataset
![Center of Dataset Image](/images/center_of_dataset.png "Center of Dataset Image")

### Description
Find the center of all geometries based off a given table.

Example: Find the geomeric center of a table that contains all of the US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Find Within Distance
![Find Within Distance Image](/images/find_within_distance.png "Find Within Distance Image")

### Description
Find all geometries within a given distance from a given point.

Example: Find all states within `500` kilometers of latitude `40.45` and latitude `-88.95`.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "latitude": 40.45,
    "longitude": -88.95,
    "distance_in_kilometers": 500
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Point To Points Distance

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Convex Hull
![Convex Hull Image](/images/convex_hull.png "Convex Hull Image")

### Description
Find the smallest convex hull around a given table.

Example: Find the smallest convex hull around all the US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Aggregate Points By Grid

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Aggregate Points By Polygons
![Aggregate Points By Polygons Image](/images/aggregate_points_by_polygons.png "Aggregate Points By Polygons Image")

### Description
Aggregate a table of points into a table of polygons to determine how points are in each polygon.

Example: Determine how many zip centroids are within each US State.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "states"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Select Inside
![Select Inside Image](/images/select_inside.png "Select Inside Image")

### Description
Find all geometries within a given polygon table.

Example: Find all zip centroids within the US States table.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "states"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Select Outside
![Select Outside Image](/images/select_outside.png "Select Outside Image")

### Description
Find all geomtries outside a given polygon table.

Example: Find all the zip centroids outside of the table with US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "states"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Clip
![Clip Image](/images/clip.png "Clip Image")

### Description
Clip any geometric table based of a polygon table.

Example: Clip the US States table to a large polygon.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "big_polygon"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Merge

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

Commit message:

update for aggregate points by grids

README.md, after:

# FastGeospatial

FastGeospatial is a [PostGIS](https://github.com/postgis/postgis) geospatial api to enable geospatial queries on geographical data within a spatial database. FastGeospatial is written in [Python](https://www.python.org/) using the [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) web framework. 

---

**Source Code**: <a href="https://github.com/mkeller3/FastGeospatial" target="_blank">https://github.com/mkeller3/FastGeospatial</a>

---

## Requirements

FastGeospatial requires PostGIS >= 2.4.0.

## Configuration

In order for the api to work you will need to edit the `config.py` file with your database connections.

Example
```python

```

## Usage

### Running Locally

To run the app locally `uvicorn main:app --reload`

### Production
Build Dockerfile into a docker image to deploy to the cloud.

## API

| Method | URL | Description |
| ------ | --- | ----------- |
| `GET` | `/api/v1/analysis/status/{process_id}` | [Analysis Status](#Analysis-Status)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/buffer` | [Buffer](#Buffer)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/dissolve` | [Dissolve](#Dissolve)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/dissolve_by_value` | [Dissolve By Value](#Dissolve-By-Value)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/square_grids` | [Square Grids](#Square-Grids)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/hexagon_grids` | [Hexagon Grids](#Hexagon-Grids)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/bounding_box` | [Bounding Box](#Bounding-Box])  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/k_means_cluster` | [K Means Cluster](#K-Means-Cluster)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/voronoi` | [Voronoi](#Voronoi)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/center_of_each_polygon` | [Center Of Each Polygon](#Center-Of-Each-Polygon)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/center_of_dataset` | [Center Of Dataset](#Center-Of-Dataset)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/find_within_distance` | [Find Within Distance](#Find-Within-Distance)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/point_to_points_distance` | [Point To Points Distance](#Point-To-Points-Distance)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/convex_hull` | [Convex Hull](#Convex-Hull)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/aggregate_points_by_grids` | [Aggregate Points By Grid](#Aggregate-Points-By-Grid)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/aggregate_points_by_polygons` | [Aggregate Points By Polygons](#Aggregate-Points-By-Polygons)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/select_inside` | [Select Inside](#Select-Inside)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/select_outside` | [Select Outside](#Select-Outside)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/clip` | [Clip](#Clip)  |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/analysis/merge` | [Merge](#Merge)  |

## Analysis Status
Any time an analysis is submitted it given a process_id to have the analysis run in the background. To check the
status of an analysis, you can call this endpoint with the process_id.

## Example Call
```shell
/api/v1/analysis/status/472e29dc-91a8-41d3-b05f-cee34006e3f7
```

## Example Output - Still Running
```json
{
    "status": "PENDING"
}
```

## Example Output - Complete
```json
{
    "status": "SUCCESS",
    "new_table_id": "shnxppipxrppsdkozuroilkubktfodibtqorhucjvxlcdrqyhh",
    "completion_time": "2022-07-06T19:33:17.950059",
    "run_time_in_seconds": 1.78599
}
```

## Example Output - Error
```json
{
    "status": "FAILURE",
    "error": "ERROR HERE",
    "completion_time": "2022-07-08T13:39:47.961389",
    "run_time_in_seconds": 0.040892
}
```

## Buffer

![Buffer Image](/images/buffer.png "Buffer Image")

### Description
Buffer an geometric table with a buffer in kilometers.

Example: Buffer zip centroids by one kilometer.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "distance_in_kilometers": 1
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Dissolve

![Dissolve Image](/images/dissolve.png "Dissolve Image")

### Description
Dissolve any geometric table into one single geometry.

Example: Dissolve all the US States into one single geometry.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Dissolve By Value
![Dissolve By Value Image](/images/dissolve_by_value.png "Dissolve By Value Image")

### Description
Dissolve any geometric table into geometries based off a column in the table.

Example: Dissolve US States based off a column in the table called `sub_region`.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "column": "sub_region"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Square Grids
![Square Grids Image](/images/square_grids.png "Square Grids Image")

### Description
Generate square grids of any size based off of a tables geometry.

Example: Generate 100 kilometers square grids based off of a table containing US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "grid_size_in_kilometers": "100"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Hexagon Grids
![Hexagon Grids Image](/images/hexagon_grids.png "Hexagon Grids Image")

### Description
Generate hexagon grids of any size based off of a tables geometry.

Example: Generate 100 kilometers hexagon grids based off of a table containing US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "grid_size_in_kilometers": 100
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Bounding Box
![Bounding Box Image](/images/bounding_box.png "Bounding Box Image")

### Description
Generate a bounding box of a table.

Example: Find the bounding box of a table that contains all of the US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## K Means Cluster
![K Means Cluster Image](/images/k_means_cluster.png "K Means Cluster Image")

Example: Group all US zip centroids into  5 groups based off of k means clusters.

### Description
Use [K Means Clustering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering) to group points based on their location.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "number_of_clusters": 5
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Voronoi

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Center Of Each Polygon
![Center of Each Polygon Image](/images/center_of_each_polygon.png "Center of Each Polygon Image")

### Description
Find the center of each polygon for a given table.

Example: Find the center of each US State.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Center Of Dataset
![Center of Dataset Image](/images/center_of_dataset.png "Center of Dataset Image")

### Description
Find the center of all geometries based off a given table.

Example: Find the geomeric center of a table that contains all of the US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Find Within Distance
![Find Within Distance Image](/images/find_within_distance.png "Find Within Distance Image")

### Description
Find all geometries within a given distance from a given point.

Example: Find all states within `500` kilometers of latitude `40.45` and latitude `-88.95`.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "latitude": 40.45,
    "longitude": -88.95,
    "distance_in_kilometers": 500
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Point To Points Distance

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Convex Hull
![Convex Hull Image](/images/convex_hull.png "Convex Hull Image")

### Description
Find the smallest convex hull around a given table.

Example: Find the smallest convex hull around all the US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Aggregate Points By Grid
![Aggregate Points By Grid Image](/images/aggregate_points_by_grids.png "Aggregate Points By Grid Image")

### Description
Aggregate a table of points into grids and determine how points are in each grid.

Example: Determine how many zip centroids are each 1000 kilometer hexagon grid.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "distance_in_kilometers": 1000,
    "grid_type": "hexagon"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Aggregate Points By Polygons
![Aggregate Points By Polygons Image](/images/aggregate_points_by_polygons.png "Aggregate Points By Polygons Image")

### Description
Aggregate a table of points into a table of polygons and determine how points are in each polygon.

Example: Determine how many zip centroids are within each US State.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "states"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Select Inside
![Select Inside Image](/images/select_inside.png "Select Inside Image")

### Description
Find all geometries within a given polygon table.

Example: Find all zip centroids within the US States table.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "states"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Select Outside
![Select Outside Image](/images/select_outside.png "Select Outside Image")

### Description
Find all geomtries outside a given polygon table.

Example: Find all the zip centroids outside of the table with US States.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "zip_centroids",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "states"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Clip
![Clip Image](/images/clip.png "Clip Image")

### Description
Clip any geometric table based of a polygon table.

Example: Clip the US States table to a large polygon.

### Example Input
```json
{
    "table": "states",
    "database": "data",
    "polygons": "big_polygon"
}
```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```

## Merge

### Description

### Example Input
```json

```

### Example Output
```json
{
  "process_id": "c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171",
  "url": "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/analysis/status/c8d7b8d8-3e82-4f93-b441-55a5f51c4171"
}
```
